# DataFest Predict Player Characteristics Project
This project utilized user data from a video game designed for middle and high schoolers. The overall goal for the designers of the game is to prevent negative health outcomes such as HIV, sexually transmitted infections, and substance misuse in young at-risk teens (ages 11-14 years) by increasing their perception of risk and acquiring healthy skills to prevent engaging in risky behavior. A key component to this change is a set of skills that allow teens to predict and understand future consequences of actions.
Because of the structure of the game, we focused on the Me Power aspect as it was the most unique for each user. The Me Power is basically where players complete a profile about their own personal lives and future and update it throughout their progression in the game. Users can customize aspects of their virtual life (choose their hobbies, dreams, priorities, etc.) and it’s the main way to gain insight into how the players view themselves, independent of the game. We wanted to examine the participant’s ambitions and goals for the future and how that evolved throughout the game. In order to do this, we examined the participant’s answers to the question in Me power level 1, how do you feel about your life right now? And compared this result to their answers to the question in the last level, what are you most looking forward to in your life? We utilized a Sankey diagram to visualize different user journeys which Kevin will elaborate on. 
After filtering the data to examine users who completed all of the “Me Power” levels, we were able to see how the users answered the first and last question. We can see in the graphic that out of the 55 users who got far enough in the game to answer all “Me Power” questions, that around 70% of them had generally positive feelings about their life right now and their career and financial success was what they wanted to focus the most on.

We saw that there wasn’t any significant difference in how boys answered the questions in comparison to girls. This was actually a surprising finding for us as we originally would have predicted that the general aspirations and priorities would slightly differ between genders due to differing societal pressures and norms.

Additional options were for the user to choose their character’s age and ethnicity through their avatar. Thus we also wanted to see if these variables would impact a user’s current life outlook and future priorities.

To dissect the distribution of how the users perceived their future outlook we looked at at seeing if there is a predictive relationship between the demographics of the user’s choice of avatar (age, gender, and ethnicity).
 After using feature selection to choose the most optimal combination of predictor variables which was (age gender and ethnicity) we training, fitting, and scoring a Random Forest Regression classification model, and we saw that there is a fairly weak predictive relationship. 
If you can see from the confusion matrix of the model, where the ith row is the true label and the jth column is the predicted variable
the predictions tend to error on the side of the most common answers,
 which indicates that the combination of age, gender and ethnicity of the avatar does not explain much variation in how users view their future outlook. 
This allows us to understand that most users are able to have positive outlooks despite differences in demographics. Which is important when targeting underprivileged audiences. 

In the first diagram, we see that a majority of players were looking towards their future career the most. We wanted to see how their priorities related to their goals after the game. Using responses to the question, “What’s a future priority most important to you?”, we notice that learning and knowledge is by far the most significant of the eight options. This is closely tied to career and emphasizes how of all the important lessons users experience, they see how their decision affect their future career the most directly. 

Throughout the “Me Power” section, we can see that career seems to be the most important element for most users.  We found this to be a very interesting outcome, given that the app itself focused so little on career and more on early life decisions.  I think this could speak to two different things: one being that the app is indirectly making users think about their careers and evaluating the choices in their lives that lead up to and affect their careers, and the other being that users are naturally thinking about their careers, in which case we suggest that the app contain more career-centric levels to help users in this obviously important area.  
